# CFDE Announcements

## Cross-Pollination Meeting
The next meeting is **TOMORROW, May 2nd, at 2 pm ET/ 11 am PT**.  We will have presentations from R03s. Regular Cross-Pollination events take place on the first Tuesday of every month. View the [Cross-Pollination Schedule](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1hQAeOLkivUZZnwZ_KxfGw3neezMaWbrPk9nnFiKfQGA/edit?usp=sharing) for more details. Email [support@cfde.atlassian.net](mailto:support@cfde.atlassian.net) if you would like to present.

## NIH Funding Opportunities -- https://commonfund.nih.gov/dataecosystem/FundingOpportunities
The NIH Common Fund is interested in applications regarding several current funding opportunities:

**Administrative Supplements to Enhance Software Tools for Open Science** ([NOT-OD-23-073](https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-od-23-073.html)) The Office of Strategic Coordination has signed on to a joint announcement with participation by multiple NIH Institutes, Centers, and Offices, with interest in applications that enhance scientific research software that make use of datasets generated by one or more Common Fund programs. The goal of this funding opportunity is to bring together scientists and software developers to improve the robustness, sustainability, and reusability of biomedical research software to improve usage and impact. Full Text of the Funding Opportunity Announcement: [Notice of Special Interest (NOSI): Administrative Supplements to Enhance Software Tools for Open Science](https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-od-23-073.html) 

Applications are due  **May 9, 2023**,  by 5:00 PM local time of applicant organization.  

**Administrative Supplements to Support Collaborations to Improve the AI/ML-Readiness of NIH-Supported Data** ([NOT-OD-23-082](https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-od-23-082.html)) The Office of Strategic Coordination has signed on to a joint announcement across multiple NIH institutes to make data generated by NIH-funded research more useful and usable for analysis with artificial intelligence and machine learning to advance biomedical discoveries. OSC is interested in applications that leverage data from one or more Common Fund datasets. Full Text of the Funding Opportunity Announcement: [Notice of Special Interest (NOSI): Administrative Supplements to Support Collaborations to Improve the AI/ML-Readiness of NIH-Supported Data](https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-od-23-082.html) 

Applications are due  **May 16, 2023**, by 5:00 PM local time of applicant organization 

**NIH Common Fund Data Ecosystem (CFDE) Data Resource Center and Knowledge Center (OT2)** ([OTA-23-004](https://commonfund.nih.gov/sites/default/files/OTA-23-004.pdf)): This research opportunity will establish the CFDE Data Resource Center and Knowledge Center, which will each act to enable broad use of the data sets and knowledge generated by Common Fund programs. The CFDE Data Resource Center will develop and maintain the CFDE to enable users to learn about CFDE resources and query Common Fund data. The CFDE Knowledge Center will establish a knowledge network platform that integrates knowledge from different Common Fund programs to amplify their impact and improve accessibility to a wide user community. Applicants may choose to apply to establish either the Data Resource Center, the Knowledge Center, or both. Letters of intent, which are not required for eligibility to submit a full proposal but are strongly recommended, are due **April 28, 2023**. Webinar dates and registration information can be found on the [CFDE Frequently Asked Questions page](https://commonfund.nih.gov/dataecosystem/faqs#webinars).  

Proposals are due  **May 30, 2023**, by 5:00 PM local time of applicant organization.

**Integration and Coordination Center for the Common Fund Data Ecosystem (U54 Clinical Trial Not Allowed)** ([RFA-RM-23-002](https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/rfa-files/RFA-RM-23-002.html)): This funding opportunity seeks applications to establish an Integration and Coordination Center to support the CFDE. This center will liaise with Common Fund programs within CFDE, coordinate across other CFDE centers, develop data sustainability plans, and ensure continuous improvement through an annual evaluation program. Letters of intent, which are not required, are due **May 30, 2023**. Webinar dates and registration information can be found on the [CFDE Frequently Asked Questions page](https://commonfund.nih.gov/dataecosystem/faqs#webinars).

Applications are due  **June 28, 2023**, by 5:00 PM local time of applicant organization. 

**Research supplements to promote workforce diversity and enhance utility and use of Common Fund datasets** ([NOT-RM-23-005](https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-RM-23-005.html)) To maximize the impact of Common Fund data and to engage a broader, more diverse community of end-users, the Common Fund will support administrative supplements for existing projects that (1) propose to enhance the use and/or utility of data from at least one Common Fund program and (2) promote the diversity of researchers using data generated by these programs. Full Text of the Funding Opportunity Announcement: [Notice of Special Interest (NOSI): Research supplements to promote workforce diversity and enhance utility and use of Common Fund datasets](https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-RM-23-005.html)

Applications are due **June 30, 2023**, by 5:00 PM local time of applicant organization

Find answers to [Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)](https://commonfund.nih.gov/dataecosystem/faqs) on the Enhancing the Use of Common Fund Data [website](https://commonfund.nih.gov/dataecosystem). You can contact the Common Fund Data Ecosystem (CFDE) team at [CFDE@od.nih.gov](mailto:CFDE@od.nih.gov) with any additional questions.

## Working Group Updates
You can find a list of CFDE WGs and linked agendas on the [Cross-Pollination Meeting Schedule](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1hQAeOLkivUZZnwZ_KxfGw3neezMaWbrPk9nnFiKfQGA/edit?usp=sharing). Currently scheduled working group meetings are as follow: 
| Working Group | Date | Time | Agenda |
| ----------------- | ----- | ----- | --------- | 
Knowledge Graph | May 16th | 12pm PT / 3pm ET | [Knowledge Graph WG](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WvpkLxWPW0XxZsam6jEJeEUQr2sQ0EWC/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=111367545760360703840&rtpof=true&sd=true)
Ontology | May 17th  | 8am PT / 11am ET | [Ontology WG](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1VoHHBeWfol6XNJa3kzOnOFuTaIrcLYbqKYQcOnj1oh4/edit?usp=sharing)

## Welcome
**IDG**: Swasti Purushotham, Priyansh Kedia

## Farewell
**CC**: Titus Brown, Rayna Harris, Natalie Sturgeon, Eve Joye
## Contributing
You can contribute to the next announcements by commenting on the open announcements issue in [this repository](https://github.com/nih-cfde/announcements/issues). Share your events and updates by posting links and descriptions in our announcements issue! If you have questions about these or other events/activities in the CFDE, contact our helpdesk at [support@cfde.atlassian.net](mailto:support@cfde.atlassian.net).

Thank you all for your efforts and have a great week!
