# CFDE Announcements

## CFDE All-Hands Meeting -- April 2023
The April CFDE Program Meeting (All-Hands Meeting) will take place next week on **April 4-5** at the Bethesdan Hilton Hotel in Bethesda, MD. More details at our [2023 April All-Hands Meeting](https://nih-cfde.github.io/2023-april-all-hands-meeting/) website. 100 people have registered to attend either in person or remotely! Details regarding the poster session and lightning talks as well as a link to submit your abstract can be found [here](https://nih-cfde.github.io/2023-april-all-hands-meeting/ABSTRACTS/).

## GitHub Security Update - 2FA Implementation
On **April 1** the CFDE GitHub will turn on 2 Factor Authentication (2FA) requirements for all CFDE associated repositories. Use the [Configuring 2FA on GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/securing-your-account-with-two-factor-authentication-2fa/configuring-two-factor-authentication) to update your account for access. Some users may already have this feature enabled. Users who do not will be removed from CFDE GitHub organization and will need to resubscribe after April 1st with 2FA enabled. This will not impact your access to other GitHub resources. If you have any questions, contact the [helpdesk](mailto:support@cfde.atlassian.net).

## Cross-Pollination Meeting
The next meeting is **Tuesday, May 2nd, at 2 pm ET/ 11 am PT**.  **There will be no meeting in April** as we will be holding the All-Hands Meeting. Regular Cross-Pollination events take place on the first Tuesday of every month. View the [Cross-Pollination Schedule](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1hQAeOLkivUZZnwZ_KxfGw3neezMaWbrPk9nnFiKfQGA/edit?usp=sharing) for more details. Email [support@cfde.atlassian.net](mailto:support@cfde.atlassian.net) if you would like to present.

## NIH Funding Opportunities
The NIH Common Fund is interested in applications regarding two current funding opportunities:

**Administrative Supplements to Support the Exploration of Cloud in NIH-supported Research** ([NOT-OD-23-070](https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-OD-23-070.html)) The Office of Strategic Coordination has signed on to a joint announcement with participation by multiple NIH Institutes, Centers, and Offices, with interest in applications that explore cloud solutions using datasets generated by one or more Common Fund programs. The goal of this funding opportunity is to enable researchers to explore and test opportunities to enhance their ongoing research projects by incorporating cloud capabilities in proof-of-concept explorations, measurements, or other tests of the suitability and feasibility of using cloud resources. Full Text of the Funding Opportunity Announcement: [Notice of Special Interest (NOSI): Administrative Supplements to Support the Exploration of Cloud in NIH-supported Research](https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-OD-23-070.html) 

Applications are due  **April 11, 2023**,  by 5:00 PM local time of applicant organization. 

**Administrative Supplements to Enhance Software Tools for Open Science** ([NOT-OD-23-073](https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-od-23-073.html)) The Office of Strategic Coordination has signed on to a joint announcement with participation by multiple NIH Institutes, Centers, and Offices, with interest in applications that enhance scientific research software that make use of datasets generated by one or more Common Fund programs. The goal of this funding opportunity is to bring together scientists and software developers to improve the robustness, sustainability, and reusability of biomedical research software to improve usage and impact. Full Text of the Funding Opportunity Announcement: [Notice of Special Interest (NOSI): Administrative Supplements to Enhance Software Tools for Open Science](https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-od-23-073.html) 

Applications are due  **May 9, 2023**,  by 5:00 PM local time of applicant organization.  

**Administrative Supplements to Support Collaborations to Improve the AI/ML-Readiness of NIH-Supported Data** ([NOT-OD-23-082](https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-od-23-082.html)) The Office of Strategic Coordination has signed on to a joint announcement across multiple NIH institutes to make data generated by NIH-funded research more useful and usable for analysis with artificial intelligence and machine learning to advance biomedical discoveries. OSC is interested in applications that leverage data from one or more Common Fund datasets. Full Text of the Funding Opportunity Announcement: [Notice of Special Interest (NOSI): Administrative Supplements to Support Collaborations to Improve the AI/ML-Readiness of NIH-Supported Data](https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-od-23-082.html) 

Applications are due  **May 16, 2023**, by 5:00 PM local time of applicant organization 

**Research supplements to promote workforce diversity and enhance utility and use of Common Fund datasets** ([NOT-RM-23-005](https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-RM-23-005.html)) To maximize the impact of Common Fund data and to engage a broader, more diverse community of end-users, the Common Fund will support administrative supplements for existing projects that (1) propose to enhance the use and/or utility of data from at least one Common Fund program and (2) promote the diversity of researchers using data generated by these programs. Full Text of the Funding Opportunity Announcement: [Notice of Special Interest (NOSI): Research supplements to promote workforce diversity and enhance utility and use of Common Fund datasets](https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-RM-23-005.html)

Applications are due **June 30, 2023**, by 5:00 PM local time of applicant organization

Find answers to [Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)](https://commonfund.nih.gov/dataecosystem/faqs) on the Enhancing the Use of Common Fund Data [website](https://commonfund.nih.gov/dataecosystem). You can contact the Common Fund Data Ecosystem (CFDE) team at [CFDE@od.nih.gov](mailto:CFDE@od.nih.gov) with any additional questions.

## Working Group Updates
You can find a list of CFDE WGs and linked agendas on the [Cross-Pollination Meeting Schedule](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1hQAeOLkivUZZnwZ_KxfGw3neezMaWbrPk9nnFiKfQGA/edit?usp=sharing). Currently scheduled working group meetings are as follow: 
| Working Group | Date | Time | Agenda |
| ----------------- | ----- | ----- | --------- | 
Knowledge Graph | April 18th | 12pm PT / 3pm ET | [Knowledge Graph WG](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WvpkLxWPW0XxZsam6jEJeEUQr2sQ0EWC/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=111367545760360703840&rtpof=true&sd=true)
Ontology | April 19th  | 8am PT / 11am ET | [Ontology WG](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1VoHHBeWfol6XNJa3kzOnOFuTaIrcLYbqKYQcOnj1oh4/edit?usp=sharing)

## Contributing

You can contribute to the next announcements by commenting on the open announcements issue in [this repository](https://github.com/nih-cfde/announcements/issues). Share your events and updates by posting links and descriptions in our announcements issue! If you have questions about these or other events/activities in the CFDE, contact our helpdesk at [support@cfde.atlassian.net](mailto:support@cfde.atlassian.net).

Thank you all for your efforts and have a great week!
