# CFDE Announcements

## Cross-Pollination Meeting - Paused
No further Cross-Pollination Meetings are planned at this time. All future meetings have been canceled. You may wish to check your calendar to make sure it has updated, and manually cancel if needed. Thank you all for your contributions and participation in this long running series of events. More Cross-Pollination opportunities will be coming soon!

## SPARC News
SPARC will be in attendance at the [11th Annual Minnesota Neuromodulation Symposium](https://science.us2.list-manage.com/track/click?u=e60c48f231a30b544eed731ea&id=9983564b8a&e=82138c187c) on **April 10-12, 2024** in Minneapolis, MN and we’re hoping to see you there. Organized by the [Institute for Engineering in Medicine (IEM)](https://science.us2.list-manage.com/track/click?u=e60c48f231a30b544eed731ea&id=8a77340e65&e=82138c187c) and [MnDRIVE Brain Conditions](https://science.us2.list-manage.com/track/click?u=e60c48f231a30b544eed731ea&id=439dea9cb2&e=82138c187c), this symposium is aimed at bringing together basic scientists, engineers, clinicians, industrial practitioners and entrepreneurs to discuss challenges and opportunities in neuromodulation. The symposium will consist of plenary presentations by leaders in academia, industry and government, and poster presentations to exchange ideas in this exciting field. The symposium, which is part of IEM Innovation Week, will be held immediately following the Design of Medical Devices Conference.

[Click here to view the MN Neuromodulation Symposium agenda](https://science.us2.list-manage.com/track/click?u=e60c48f231a30b544eed731ea&id=514e91b8ac&e=82138c187c)

## CFDE Funding Opportunities

### **NIH Common Fund Data Ecosystem (CFDE) Training Center (OT2) – OTA-24-004** 
The CF is announcing a funding opportunity to establish the [Training Center (TC)](https://commonfund.nih.gov/sites/default/files/OTA-24-004.pdf) for the Common Fund Data Ecosystem (CFDE). This center will be responsible for identifying and addressing the training opportunities and needs of the CFDE community. The TC team must effectively and productively collaborate with the CFDE investigators and the ecosystem's other components. The TC will promote the use and reuse of CF resources by creating and implementing activities addressing three target training-related functions: training and mentoring, coordination of CFDE training activities, and web infrastructure.  

More information can be found on the [Common Fund Data Ecosystem](https://commonfund.nih.gov/dataecosystem) website. Email Dr. Sahana Kukke at [sahana.kukke@nih.gov](mailto:sahana.kukke@nih.gov) and [CFDE@od.nih.gov](mailto:CFDE@od.nih.gov) with any additional questions.

Applications are due  **April 1, 2024**,  by 5:00 PM local time of the applicant organization.  

### **NIH Common Fund: Research supplements to promote workforce diversity and enhance utility and use of Common Fund datasets (NOT-RM-24-003)** 
The  [NIH Common Fund](https://commonfund.nih.gov/) (CF) has signed onto [PA-23-189](https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/pa-files/PA-23-189.html) and is accepting applications regarding a Notice of Special Interest (NOSI): [NOT-RM-24-003](https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-RM-24-003.html). To maximize the impact of Common Fund data and to engage a broader, more diverse community of end-users, eligible applicants must (1) substantially leverage data from at least one Common Fund program and (2) promote the diversity of researchers using data generated by these programs. See the list of eligible Common Fund datasets on [announcement page](https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-RM-24-003.html). 

Email Dr. Sahana Kukke at [sahana.kukke@nih.gov](mailto:sahana.kukke@nih.gov) and Dr. George Papanicolaou at [george.papanicolaou@nih.gov](mailto:george.papanicolaou@nih.gov) with any additional questions. 

Applications are due  **April 8, 2024**, by 5:00 PM local time of applicant organization.

### **NIH Common Fund Data Ecosystem (CFDE) Cloud Workspace Implementation Center (OT2)– OTA-24-005** 
The CF is announcing a funding opportunity ([OTA-24-005](https://commonfund.nih.gov/sites/default/files/OTA-24-005.pdf)) to establish the Cloud Workspace Implementation Center (CWIC) for the Common Fund Data Ecosystem (CFDE). The CWIC will create a synergistic cloud workspace that enables users to import their data and co-analyze them together with other Common Fund data sets. The cloud workspace will also enable the use of CFDE-constructed pipelines, workflows, and other analysis and visualization resources. It will meet the needs of both novice and expert users.  

More information can be found on the [Common Fund Data Ecosystem](https://commonfund.nih.gov/dataecosystem) website. Email Dr. Anthony Kirilusha at [anthony.kirilusha@nih.gov](mailto:anthony.kirilusha@nih.gov) and [CFDE@od.nih.gov](mailto:CFDE@od.nih.gov) with any additional questions.   

Applications are due  **April 22, 2024**,  by 5:00 PM local time of the applicant organization.   

### **NIH Director's New Innovator Award (DP2 - Clinical Trial Optional): [RFA-RM-24-003](https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/rfa-files/RFA-RM-24-003.html)**
The New Innovator Award supports exceptionally creative early stage investigators proposing highly innovative and high-impact projects. The New Innovator Award has the following characteristics: 

Single-PI applications only - PI must have [Early Stage Investigator](https://grants.nih.gov/policy/early-investigators/index.htm) status - No preliminary data required - $1.5 million in direct costs disbursed in two multi-year-funded segments of three-years and two-years 

PHS 2590 Non-Competing Continuation Progress Report (not a Multi-Year Funded Research Performance Progress Report (RPPR)) must be submitted in year three for funding the second award segment. Detailed Budget pages must be completed according to the special instructions in the funding opportunity announcement 

See the [New Innovator Award website](https://commonfund.nih.gov/newinnovator) for more information, including FAQs and an application guide with sample applications. Prospective applicants are invited to a pre-application webinar on June 25, 2024, from 2:00-3:30 PM ET. NIH staff will discuss the initiative and answer questions about the application and review process. Questions for the webinar should be submitted ahead of time to [NewInnovatorAwards@mail.nih.gov](mailto:NewInnovatorAwards@mail.nih.gov) by 11:59 PM local time on June 20, 2024. Additional questions may be taken during the webinar if time allows. [Register for the webinar and join on Webex](https://nih.webex.com/weblink/register/r7e9a37918b24b1422d5915e8e2f1362c). The webinar will be recorded and posted on the New Innovator Award website. 

Applications due **August 19, 2024**

### **NIH Director’s Transformative Research Award (R01 - Clinical Trial Optional): [RFA RM-24-004](https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/rfa-files/RFA-RM-24-004.html)**
The Transformative Research Award supports individuals or teams proposing groundbreaking, exceptionally innovative, original, and/or unconventional research with the potential to create new scientific paradigms, establish new and improved clinical approaches, or develop transformative technologies. The Transformative Research Award has the following characteristics: 

Open to all career stages - Accepts single-PI or multi-PI applications - No preliminary data or detailed experimental plan required - Anonymized Specific Aims page and Research Strategy section - Flexible budget

The Transformative Research Award initiative is piloting an anonymized review process. Applicants should carefully read and follow the instructions in the funding opportunity to ensure responsiveness. 

See the [Transformative Research Award website](https://commonfund.nih.gov/TRA) for more information, including FAQs and an application guide with sample applications. Prospective applicants are invited to a pre-application webinar on **June 26, 2024**, from 3:30-5:00 PM ET. NIH staff will discuss the initiative and answer questions about the application and review process. Questions for the webinar should be submitted ahead of time to [Transformative_Awards@mail.nih.gov](mailto:Transformative_Awards@mail.nih.gov) by 11:59 PM local time on **June 21, 2024**. Additional questions may be taken during the webinar if time allows. [Register for the webinar and join on Webex](https://nih.webex.com/weblink/register/rff2d0c06dc059ba753d5d98f5e49986f). The webinar will be recorded and posted on the Transformative Research Award website. 

Application deadline: **September 3, 2024**

### **NIH Director’s Early Independence Award (DP5 - Clinical Trial Optional): [RFA RM-24-005](https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/rfa-files/RFA-RM-24-005.html)**

The Early Independence Award enables rigorous and promising early career investigators to bypass the traditional postdoctoral training period and launch an independent research career. Applicants must have recently completed or will soon complete their doctoral degree or clinical training and have the support and guarantee of an independent research position from a host institution. 

Single-PI applications only - Complete doctoral degree or clinical training between **May 1, 2023**, and **September 30, 2025** - In non-independent research position at time of application - Cannot have served in a postdoctoral position for more than 12 months before completion of terminal doctoral degree or clinical training - Requires significant institutional commitment - Limited to two applications per institution - No preliminary data required - Up to $250,000 direct costs per year for up to 5 years

See the [Early Independence Award website](https://commonfund.nih.gov/earlyindependence) for more information, including FAQs and an application guide with sample applications. Prospective applicants are invited to a pre-application webinar on **June 26, 2024**, from 1:00-2:30 PM ET. NIH staff will discuss the initiative and answer questions about the application and review process. Questions for the webinar should be submitted ahead of time to [EarlyIndependence@od.nih.gov](mailto:EarlyIndependence@od.nih.gov) by 11:59 PM local time on **June 21, 2024**. Additional questions may be taken during the webinar if time allows. [Register for the webinar and join on Webex](https://nih.webex.com/weblink/register/r648c5c296a46ef0846295c42badc9bd2). The webinar will be recorded and posted on the Early Independence Award website.

Application deadline:  **September 6, 2024**

### **NIH Director's Pioneer Award (DP1 - Clinical Trial Optional): [RFA-RM-24-002](https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/rfa-files/RFA-RM-24-002.html)**
The Pioneer Award supports scientists with outstanding records of creativity proposing pioneering approaches to major challenges in any area of science relevant to the broad mission of NIH. The Pioneer Award has the following characteristics: 

Open to all career stages - Single-PI applications only - No preliminary data required - Must be new scientific research direction - $700,000 direct costs per year for 5 years

See the [Pioneer Award website](https://commonfund.nih.gov/pioneer) for more information, including FAQs and an application guide with sample applications. Prospective applicants are invited to a pre-application webinar on **June 25, 2024**, from 12:00-1:30 PM ET. NIH staff will discuss the initiative and answer questions about the application and review process. Questions for the webinar should be submitted ahead of time to [PioneerAwards@mail.nih.gov](mailto:PioneerAwards@mail.nih.gov) by 11:59 PM local time on **June 20, 2024**. Additional questions may be taken during the webinar if time allows. [Register for the webinar and join on Webex](https://nih.webex.com/weblink/register/rc9528aefd744b58c71eb5ec237e6b173). The webinar will be recorded and posted on the Pioneer Award website. 

Application deadline:  **September 9, 2024**

## Internships & Fellowships

### NIH Postdoctoral Fellowship Research Training Program (NOT-RM-24-006) 
The Office of Strategic Coordination, which oversees the [NIH Common Fund](https://commonfund.nih.gov/) (CF),  has signed onto the Ruth L. Kirschstein National Research Service Award ([PA-23-262](https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/pa-files/PA-23-262.html)) and is accepting applications from Postdoctoral Fellows ([NOT-RM-24-006](https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-RM-24-006.html))  interested in conducting research that leverages data from  at least one Common Fund program to address novel research questions and encourage careers in bioinformatics research.  

Common Fund support will be limited to two years for this award. Recipients are expected to attend one two-day CFDE Consortium meeting in the Spring to be held in Bethesda, Maryland, for scientific and professional interactions with the CFDE community. 

Applications are due  **April 8, 2024**,  by 5:00 PM local time of the applicant organization.  

More information can be found on the [Common Fund Data Ecosystem](https://commonfund.nih.gov/dataecosystem/FundingOpportunities) website. Email Dr. Sahana Kukke at [sahana.kukke@nih.gov](mailto:sahana.kukke@nih.gov) or Dr. George Papanicolaou at [george.papanicolaou@nih.gov](mailto:george.papanicolaou@nih.gov) with any additional questions.

### NIH Center for Alzheimer’s and Related Dementias (CARD) Fellowship
We are currently recruiting for a [fully paid Master’s in Data Science Fellowship](https://card.nih.gov/job-training-opportunities/training-opportunities/data-science-masters). The application deadline is the end of the day on **April 22, 2024**.

This opportunity allows students to earn an MPS degree in data science while earning a full stipend to work at CARD with real-world data in the dementia space, working to explore the genetic architecture of disease from a data science perspective. This program is a collaboration with NIH FAES and UMBC. We are particularly passionate about recruiting diverse fellows.  We have a blog post featuring interviews with current MPS in Data Science Fellows at CARD – students can learn what it’s like to be in the program: https://card.nih.gov/news-events/card-news/what-its-be-masters-data-science-student-nih-card. Prospective fellows can learn more about this opportunity and apply here: https://faes.org/CARD-FAES-UMBC_Fellowship.

## Working Group Updates
You can find a list of CFDE WGs and linked agendas on the [Cross-Pollination Meeting Schedule](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1hQAeOLkivUZZnwZ_KxfGw3neezMaWbrPk9nnFiKfQGA/edit?usp=sharing). Currently scheduled working group meetings are as follow: 
| Working Group | Date | Time | Agenda |
| ----------------- | ----- | ----- | --------- | 
Knowledge Graph | April 16th | 12pm PT / 3pm ET | [Knowledge Graph WG](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WvpkLxWPW0XxZsam6jEJeEUQr2sQ0EWC/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=111367545760360703840&rtpof=true&sd=true)
Ontology | April 17th  | 8am PT / 11am ET | [Ontology WG](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1VoHHBeWfol6XNJa3kzOnOFuTaIrcLYbqKYQcOnj1oh4/edit?usp=sharing)

## C2M2 Submission Schedule
| Submission Deadline | Portal Update |
| ---------------------- | -----------------|
Mar 15 | Apr 1

## Welcome
**ICC**: Jake Chen, Swathi Thaker, Sean Davis, Casey Greene, Peipei Ping, Wei Wang 

## Contributing
You can contribute to the next announcements by commenting on the open announcements issue in [this repository](https://github.com/nih-cfde/announcements/issues). Share your events and updates by posting links and descriptions in our announcements issue! If you have questions about these or other events/activities in the CFDE, contact our helpdesk at [support@cfde.atlassian.net](mailto:support@cfde.atlassian.net).
